OOPs
OOPs is a programming paradigm based on classes and objects that helps us to design software using real-world entities.

Procedural programming
Code is written as a sequence of instructions.
Only functions are present, not objects.
Ex- C(Pure procedural programming language), Pascal, COBOL(Common Business Oriented Lnaguage).

Note- Java is primarily Object oriented Programming Language but it also supports procedural programming language.

Problems in PP
1.Code is not well organized.
2.Same code is written again and again.
3.Large programs are difficult to manage.
4.Real world things are difficult to represent.
5.Anyone can access the data.

Need of OOPs
1.OOPs organize data using classes.
2.OOPs allows code reuse using inheritance.
3.Large programs are easy to manage.
4.OOPs represent real-world objects.
5.OOPs keeps data safe using encapsulation.

Advantages of OOPs
1.Modularity- Code is divided into objects and classes so it is easy to understand and manage.
2.Reusability- We can reuse existing code using inheritance which saves time and effort.
3.Data Security(Encapsulation)- OOPs protects important details by hiding it from the direct access.
4.Maintainability- It is easy to update, modify and fix the code.
5.Scalability- OOPs makes it easy to develop and manage large applications.
6.Real-world things- OOPs represents real-world things like car, student, and bank account etc.


Access Specifiers/Modifiers
Access Specifiers/Modifiers are the keywords that determine who can access the variables and methods of a class.

There are four types.
1.Private- Can be accessed only with in the same class.
2.Protected- Can be accessed within the same class, the same package, and by child(subclass) classes.
3.Public- Public can be accessed from anywhere.
4.Default(No Modifier)- Can be accessed only within the same package.

Package 📦
Package matlab classes ka folder.
src
 └── com
      └── example
           ├── Student.java
           └── Teacher.java
Yahan com.example ek package hai.
Agar Student.java aur Teacher.java dono com.example me hain, to dono same package me hain.

2.Subclass (Child Class) 
Jab ek class dusri class ko inherit karti hai, to woh subclass ya child class kehlati hai.
class Animal {
}
class Dog extends Animal {
}
Animal → Parent (Superclass)
Dog → Child (Subclass)
extends keyword inheritance ke liye use hota hai.

Parent Class = Base Class = Superclass
Child Class = Derived Class = Subclass

Access Modifier	 Same Class 	 Same Package	           Child Class                              World
private               ✅	               ❌	                   ❌	                                 ❌
default	            ✅	               ✅	                   ✅ (agar same package me ho)	         ❌
protected	            ✅	               ✅	                   ✅	                                 ❌
public	            ✅	               ✅	                   ✅	                                 ✅

Friend class(Only in C++)
A friend class in C++ is a special class that is allowed to access the private and protected member of another class using the friend keyword.

Four Pillars of OOPs are:
1.Encapsulation
2.Inheritance
3.Polymorphism
4.Abstraction

1.Encapsulation
Encapsulation is the wrapping data(attributes/variables) and methods(functions) into a single unit called class.
It ensures data hiding using private access modifiers.
It accesses the data using getter and setter method.

Getter- Getter is used to access(read) the value of a private variable.
Setter- Setter is used to modify(update) the value of a private variable.


2.Inheritance
Inheritance is the process by which one class acquire propertiers and methods from another 








































